---
layout: page
---

Suppose that $$\alpha$$ is a wff not containing the negation symbol $$\lnot$$ 

Claim: The length of $$\alpha$$ is odd

Throughout the problem I use $$\square$$ to denote an arbitrary choice of $$\land,\lor,\to,\leftrightarrow$$ 

Let $$\langle \varepsilon_1,\ldots,\varepsilon_n\rangle$$ be its corresponding construction sequence. If $$n=1,2$$ then the claim is obvious, since $$\alpha$$ not containing the $$\lnot$$ symbol implies that $$\varepsilon_1$$ and $$\varepsilon_2$$ are sentence symbols. Assume $$n > 2$$. I prove the claim inductively. If $$\varepsilon_3$$ is a sentence symbol, then certainly $$\varepsilon_3$$ has odd length. If $$\varepsilon_3 = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_1,\varepsilon_2)$$, then $$\varepsilon_3 = (\varepsilon_1\square\varepsilon_2)$$ has odd length since $$\varepsilon_1$$ and $$\varepsilon_2$$ have odd length. Thus, $$\varepsilon_3$$ has odd length. Now, assume $$\varepsilon_1,\ldots,\varepsilon_k$$ have odd length. If $$\varepsilon_{k+1}$$ is a sentence symbol then it is obviously of odd length. On the other hand, if $$\varepsilon_{k+1} = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_i,\varepsilon_j)$$ where $$i,j < k+1$$, then $$\varepsilon_{k+1} = (\varepsilon_i\square\varepsilon_j)$$ has odd length. Therefore $$\varepsilon_{k+1}$$ has odd length. From this argument it follows that the last construction step of $$\alpha$$, that is $$\varepsilon_n$$, has odd length, and thus $$\alpha$$ has odd length.

Claim: More than a quarter of the symbols in $$\alpha$$ are sentence symbols.

To show this, I will first show that the length of $$\alpha$$ is of the form $$4k+1$$ for some integer $$k$$, and that $$\alpha$$ contains $$k+1$$ sentence symbols.

As before, $$\varepsilon_1$$ and $$\varepsilon_2$$ must be sentence symbols, so they have length $$1$$. Since they contain $$1$$ sentence symbols, it's clear that $$\varepsilon_1$$ and $$\varepsilon_2$$ have lengths of the form $$4k+1$$ and contain $$k+1$$ sentence symbols, where $$k=0$$. Now, assume that $$\varepsilon_1,\ldots,\varepsilon_j$$ have lengths of the form $$4k+1$$ and contain $$k+1$$ sentence symbols. If $$\varepsilon_{j+1}$$ is a sentence symbol then we already know it is also of this form. On the other hand, consider the case where $$\varepsilon_{j+1} = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_r,\varepsilon_s)$$ for some $$r,s < j+1$$. Assume that $$\varepsilon_r$$ has length $$4q + 1$$ for some integer $$q$$, and thus contains $$q+1$$ sentence symbols. Assume that $$\varepsilon_s$$ has length $$4p+1$$ for some integer $$p$$, and thus contains $$p+1$$ sentence symbols. Notice that $$\varepsilon_{j+1} = (\varepsilon_r\square\varepsilon_s)$$ then contains $$q + p + 2$$ sentence symbols, and is of length $$4q + 1 + 4p + 1 + 3 = 4(q +p+1) + 1$$. We notice that $$\varepsilon_{j+1}$$ has length of the form $$4k + 1$$ and $$k+1$$ sentence symbols where $$k = q + p + 1$$. By induction, this argument yields that $$\varepsilon_n = \alpha$$ has length of the form $$4k+1$$ and $$k+1$$ sentence symbols. Since $$k+1 > \frac{4k+1}{4}$$, it's clear that more than a quarter of the symbols in $$\alpha$$ are sentence symbols.$$
