---
layout: page
---

Show that there are no wffs of length 2, 3, or 6, but that any other positive length is possible.

Suppose $$\alpha$$ is a wff of length $$2$$, and $$\langle \varepsilon_1,\ldots,\varepsilon_n\rangle$$ is it's construction sequence. 
We have that $$\alpha = \varepsilon_n$$, where $$\varepsilon_n$$ is one of the three possibilities
1) $$\varepsilon_n$$ is a sentence symbol
2) $$\varepsilon_n = \varepsilon_\lnot(\varepsilon_j)$$        where $$j<n$$
3) $$\varepsilon_n = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_j,\varepsilon_k)$$      where $$j,k <n$$ and $$\square$$ is one of $$\land,\lor,\to,\leftrightarrow$$ 

If $$\varepsilon_n$$ is a sentence symbol then $$\alpha$$ has length $$1$$, a contradiction. Thus, $$\varepsilon_n$$ is not a sentence symbol. 

If $$\varepsilon_n = \varepsilon_\lnot(\varepsilon_j)$$ then since $$\varepsilon_j =\beta$$ must have length at least $$1$$, $$\alpha = \varepsilon_\lnot(\varepsilon_j) = (\lnot\beta)$$ has length at least $$4$$, a contradiction.

Thus $$\varepsilon_n = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_j,\varepsilon_k)$$ where $$j,k < n$$ and $$\square$$ is one of $$\land,\lor,\to,\leftrightarrow$$ 
Since $$\varepsilon_j = \beta$$ and $$\varepsilon_k = \gamma$$ have length at least $$1$$, $$\alpha = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_j,\varepsilon_k) = (\beta\square\gamma)$$ will have length at least $$5$$, another contradiction.

Therefore, it is impossible for $$\alpha$$ to have length $$2$$.

The previous argument can be repeated exactly to show that there are no wffs of length $$3$$.

Now, suppose that $$\alpha$$ is a wff of length $$6$$, and $$\langle \varepsilon_1,\ldots,\varepsilon_n\rangle$$ is its construction sequence.

Obviously, $$\alpha$$ is not a sentence symbol. If $$\varepsilon_n = \varepsilon_\lnot(\varepsilon_j)$$ and $$\varepsilon_j =\beta$$, then $$\alpha = \varepsilon_\lnot(\varepsilon_j) = (\lnot\beta)$$ having length $$6$$ implies that $$\beta$$ must have length $$3$$. But this is impossible, since we know there are no wffs with length $$3$$.

Thus, it must be that $$\varepsilon_n = \varepsilon_\square(\varepsilon_j,\varepsilon_k)$$. Since $$\varepsilon_j = \beta$$ and $$\varepsilon_k = \gamma$$ are wffs, we have that $$\alpha = (\beta\square\gamma)$$, so that the concatenation $$\beta\gamma$$ is of length $$3$$. Since wffs must be of length at least $$1$$, we must have either $$\beta$$ or $$\gamma$$ of length $$2$$. But this is a contradiction, since there are no wffs of length $$2$$. 

Therefore, there are no wffs of length $$6$$.

Now, all that remains to be seen is that there are wffs of all positive lengths besides $$2,3$$ and $$6$$. Obviously, there exists wffs of length $$1$$ since sentence symbols are wffs.
Since negation of a wff of length $$k$$ yields a new wff with length $$k+3$$, we know that there exists wffs of lengths $$1,4,7,10,\ldots$$ given by
\begin{equation}A_1\quad(\lnot A_1)\quad (\lnot(\lnot A_1))\quad (\lnot(\lnot(\lnot A_1)))\end{equation}
Now consider the wff $$(A_1\land A_2)$$ which has length $$5$$. Through repeated negation of this wff as in the above step, we get wffs with lengths $$5,8,11,14,\ldots$$ 

The only remaining step is to show that there exists wffs of lengths $$9,12,15,18,\ldots$$
These can be obtained by considering the wff $$(A_1\lor(A_2\land A_3))$$ which has length $$9$$, and performing repeated negations as above.

Therefore, there exists wffs with length $$k$$ for any positive integer $$k$$ besides $$2,3$$ and $$6$$.


